---
title: Climate AI Nordics co-founder in Swedish Public Radio
image: /images/posts/2025-03-26-klotet-i-p1.webp
shortversion: "Climate AI Nordics co-founder in Swedish Public Radio show \"Klotet\". \"AI is part of the solution—but not the whole solution\"."
people:
- Olof Mogren
---

What role should AI play in tackling the climate crisis? Today, our co-founder Olof Mogren, PhD joined Klotet on Swedish public radio (Sveriges Radio P1) for an important conversation on the possibilities and risks of AI for climate resilience. Alongside Frida Berry Eklund from our partner organization Klimatkollen and Victor Galaz from Stockholm Resilience Centre, Olof emphasized that:

* AI is part of the solution—but not the whole solution.
    While it’s a powerful tool that can boost efficiency and support smarter decisions, AI itself is neither good nor bad. It can just as easily accelerate climate harm if misapplied—like making fast fashion more efficient.
* The key isn’t just building smarter AI. It’s *steering its use* through clear societal goals and incentives.
    Olof argues that we must focus on *the underlying activities* that AI supports. Without addressing the root issues—like fossil fuel dependence or unsustainable production—tech alone won’t save us.
* At Climate AI Nordics, we believe in guiding AI to *amplify climate-positive action*, not just speed things up.

Big thanks to Marie-Louise Kristola at Sveriges Radio for elevating this critical discussion—and to our brilliant partners and colleagues helping shape a responsible, sustainable AI future.

Listen to the episode (in Swedish): [sverigesradio.se](https://www.sverigesradio.se/avsnitt/ai-en-nyckfull-motor-pa-vagen-mot-omstallning)

