---
title: "Featured member, June 2025: Edmond Sacre"
shortversion: "Researcher at SLU Aqua (Swedish University of Agricultural Sciences) within the Unit for Protected Areas and Marine Planning. Particularly interested in applied research questions related to mapping aquatic biodiversity and using this information to inform conservation decisions. More specifically, interested in how we might be able to utilize the power of machine learning and AI to map species and ecosystems, especially where data are limited."
people:
- Edmond Sacre
image: /images/people/ed-sacre.jpeg
--- 


**Hi Edmond! Tell us about yourself and your work.**
 
I am a researcher at SLU Aqua (Swedish University of Agricultural Sciences) within the Unit for Protected Areas and Marine Planning. I am particularly interested in applied research questions related to mapping aquatic biodiversity and using this information to inform conservation decisions. More specifically, I am interested in how we might be able to utilize the power of machine learning and AI to map species and ecosystems, especially where data are limited (e.g., the deep sea or developing countries). This information could be extremely useful, for example, to inform government agencies on optimal locations for nature reserves and where and which nature restoration measures might be effective. 
  
**Any opportunities or collaborations you’re looking for at the moment?**

Since we are a team of ecologists, we are particularly interested in collaborating with people with more of an interest or background in machine learning, AI, and computer science. We are seeking, for example, Masters students with an interest in applications for AI in ecology and conservation biology, particularly in the Baltic Sea. We can complement these skills with our rich datasets and expertise in ecological systems. We are also interested in collaborations with those interested in developing these ideas into funding applications for PhD students and post-docs.
 
**Where can people reach you?**

Please feel free to reach out if the research topics are of interest to you!

Linkedin: [www.linkedin.com/in/edmond-sacre-32a256327](www.linkedin.com/in/edmond-sacre-32a256327)

Email: [edmond.sacre@slu.se](edmond.sacre@slu.se)
